Competence, Completion, Control (Escape), Social Capital  -why player should care, why do we play
we should give them reason to play -> engagement, retention
we should think about player lifecycle - onboarding with very steep increase in joy, then it comes down till some point where we need engagement to get the joy back up, then we go to steady line where we get the retention and then go to the fandom
we need to have a core loop: start condition -  challenge - resolution - reward.
also must think about why people play? there are numerous reasons why people play:
Why do mobile players start playing games?

Reason	Percentage
Feel bored	56%
Have spare time	53%
Need to relax	53%
Need a break from school or work	39%
Need to stimulate my mind	32%
Get an invite from friends	28%
In the mood for competition	27%
Get a notification from a game	23%
See a post on social media	21%
Have a standard time I play with friends	21%

our game must go from relief - tension and from that anticipation it should go to fear of missing out, what if we dont get it solved, what if we dont get the reward, then after they solve it it should go to relief from the tension. but we must not give them the full satisfaction, it should get that itch, but it should not give them the full satisfaction and should leave out a room for that anticipation for them to come back and for them to want to do it again. it doesn't has to be negative emotion, it can simply be i can do it better next time, i want to see what is the next reward, i want to see over the hill. 

must also think about first time user experience, it must be simple, really really simple. they should learn by playing as well not only by us telling them what to do. it should feel intrusive and natural. also it must end with foreshadowing, why user should come back next time, it must leave that inception in their mind to come back the next time. 

success must feel attainable, not certain. at the same time, failure must feel fixable, not unfair. you dont have a sense of achievement if the success was certain, this is absolutely massively important! think of the game flow, if the game made you fail, the player will feel bitter and angry, if they feel they can make one thing better and differently they gonna feel satisfied and more encouraged to play again. and that is what we are after here. most important to remember: engagement starts with giving a reason to play again!

players need to see how far theyve come and how far theyve got to go to.  tasks might be levelling up, ranking up, opening new regions, opening new chapters, opening up new game modes. whatever it is we gotta establish why user should care, what is their purpose, they only gonna keep playing if they understand that and embrace that. 

now optimization is one of the most satisfying things in a game, when they look at the game, framework and the structures of the game and they try to perfect their method. this is amazingly motivation to stay playing. there should be ambiguity left out in the best method for the game. it should be up to debate, should grab attention and engagement among the users. 

another powerful method is narrative, immerse the playing with emotions. Even if our game is not a story game, a little bits of the narrative would make users anticipate what comes next. 